>> Nina: Just like we've been using dir,
and help, and type,
on the REPL there are a few
really helpful methods
associated with instances and
classes as well.
So we can check the type,
like we've been doing.
So cars.Car, that's a type,
the type(my_subaru),
is this class itself, right?
So just like we did with int,
the type of int is a class type.
The type of an instance of
int is the class itself.
There's a built in method called
isInstance to help us answer
the question of, is this particular
instance of this particular type.
So this is just built in, you don't
have to import it from any where.
I can ask is the instance 42 of type int,
I'll get True.
IsInstance of hello world,
is this a string?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Nina: Yes, IsInstance 42 a string?
No, it's not.
IsInstance my_subaru, an int?
No, if I ask isinstance(my_subaru,
cars.Car), it's true, right?
We saw that earlier when
we looked at the types.
>> Nina: Just kind of a funny,
interesting factoid here,
don't use this in production code.
If I check isInstance of a boolean
with int, I'll see true.
>> Nina: So
we talked about how the boolean,
the truthiness value of 0 is false.
The truthiness of any number but
0 is true.
Booleans were added in Python,
later on, after integers.
And they wanted to kind of make
sure that this new language feature
minimized disruption.
And so booleans are a subclass of int.
>> Nina: And again, don't do this, but
you can add them together,
it's not a syntax error.
>> Speaker 2: So, Nina, this is why if you
have a set and you have 0, 1, True, False,
you actually only get 0 and
1 back as the duplicate.
>> Nina: Oops,
that's not what I wanted to do.
>> Speaker 2: So that's why.
>> Nina: Yeah, don't do this in
production code, it's pretty bad.
>> Nina: One place you might
find this a little bit useful,
this isn't in the course website,
just to digress a little bit.
There are two really useful
methods called all and any.
So any you can pass in a list and
it'll say,
>> Nina: Are any of these values truthy?
And this is really weird, right?
It's kind of hard to read.
I even find it hard to remember
that -1 is truthy in Python, right?
So the better way of doing this would
be True, False, True, True.
And then you can say
are any of these true?
You can also use all and
ask, are all of these true?
And you'll get False.
So anyway, interesting little factoid.
And everything in Python is
a subclass of this kind of greater
built in type that we don't
really use called object.
>> Nina: .So integers, strings, booleans,
under the head, they're all objects.